---
layout: post
title: "About Stoicism"
date: 2021-02-22
comments: true
categories: [philosophy]
---

#### This article contains parts that may trigger your anxiety. Be warned.

It was 2018 I believe when my colleague, Lei, suggested [Meditations](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30659.Meditations) from Marcus Aurelius. I wasn't sure what to expect of this book. The writings of a Roman Emperor to himself. A Stoic Roman Emperor.

Up until that point, in my head at least, Stoicism was correlated with being very cold and unphased by everything. With apathy I'd say. I was curious to see if I was right, so I begun reading.

In terms of my reading preferences, literature that was written about two thousand years ago by a Roman Empero was definitely not very high on my to-read list. But I decided to give it a go nonetheless.

>It is not death a man should fear, but he should fear never beginning to live.
>
> — Marcus Aurelius




There's a certain sense of awe when you read someone's thoughts after two millenia since it was written. I quickly realized that this is not a common book. There's definitely something special about it. So I was hooked. About halfway through, I realized that the original was written by Aurelius in Ancient Greek so I picked up a dual (modern and ancient Greek) version of the book on my next visit to Greece.

The period in which I was reading the book was a challenging one for me. My anxiety was at an all time high with panic attacks happening daily. I genuinely think that Stoicism, along with Mindfulness daily meditation was among the tools that helped me get better over time. Living abroad was not helping my psychology and the stress of being a parent of a small child was bearing heavily on me. Anxiety has a nasty way of using your greatest fears against you, no matter how small and illogical.

But I digress.

Over the years I've come to realize that humans need at least religion and faith or philosophy in their life. Perhaps not everyone is blessed with the genetic predisposition to handle consciousness and existence as easy as others. And for me, a skeptic through and through, the ship of religion and faith had sailed a very long time ago. Despite being a baptized Christian.

The truth is that I am not sure if I am an Atheist. I don't like to label my self anymore but praying to a higher being for comfort isn't in my action bar.

And then I was exposed to Stoicism, and at this point you are probably wondering what the above have anything to do with Stoicism in the first place? The point is that, as I said before, you need some sort of toolset to navigate your life. In the absense of religion, and as Nietzsche said, God being dead and all, the gap left for the new generations is pretty big. With religion taking the back seat, it's no wonder that Stoicism is in fashion.

> With religion taking the back seat, it's no wonder that philosophy is once again popular.

What many don't realize is that Religion has taken many tools from the philosophical schools and used them, in most cases without references. But I am not here to give you the delta between Religion and Philosophy. The point I am trying to make here is that they are both practical frameworks by which you can live an honest, resilient life.

I am keen to describe some parts of Stoicism that helped me in follow up blog posts.